Documentation-Strategy.md, before:



# Side note

Open question what is in scope of rusEFI wiki and what is out of scope.

* A of Nov 2022 the best cost/benefit ratio is to work on TunerStudio layout and TunerStudio field tooltips and help articles which are embedded into "Help" of specific dialogs.
* Andrey does not believe in text documentation on wiki
* Content problem versus infrastructure/structure problem like https://github.com/rusefi/rusefi_documentation/issues/250 and https://github.com/rusefi/rusefi_documentation/issues/168
* We are probably not trying to teach people how to tune HP Academy does that better


# If we still hope to untangle the mess of four Wikis

As of April, 2020 the strategy is to move from MediaWiki https://rusefi.com/wiki/ to
https://github.com/rusefi/rusefi/wiki/

A full list of (Legacy) mediawiki pages is available at https://rusefi.com/wiki/index.php?title=Special:AllPages


Arguments for github:
1) Access control
2) Better change review process
3) Better history and version control management

Arguments against github
1) Weird workflow with two separate git repositories
2) Weird inconsistency of markup language between two git repositories

Arguments for mediawiki:
1) ?

Commit message:

Documentation process refactor (#317)
* update documentation howto

* few more changes

* try to make more readable

* try to make more readable

* add spaces for newlines

* add spaces for newlines

* add details for how to make dropdown

* change header level

Documentation-Strategy.md, after:

# Documentation Strategy

Open question: What is in scope of rusEFI wiki and what is out of scope?

* A of Nov 2022 the best cost/benefit ratio is to work on TunerStudio layout and TunerStudio field tooltips and help articles which are embedded into "Help" of specific dialogs.
* Andrey does not believe in text documentation on wiki
* Content problem versus infrastructure/structure problem like https://github.com/rusefi/rusefi_documentation/issues/250 and https://github.com/rusefi/rusefi_documentation/issues/168
* We are probably not trying to teach people how to tune HP Academy does that better

## Wiki status

As of December, 2022 the strategy is to maintain two wikis, with [the same source](https://github.com/rusefi/rusefi_documentation) for both.
[https://github.com/rusefi/rusefi/wiki/](https://github.com/rusefi/rusefi/wiki/) AKA Wiki2
[https://wiki.rusefi.com](https://wiki.rusefi.com) AKA Wiki3


Reasons for using a source repo:
1. Access control
2. Change review process
3. History and version control management

Problems with Github Wiki:
1. [Not crawlable by search engines](https://github.com/isaacs/github/issues/1683)

Problems with having two wikis:
1. Inconsistency of markup language between the two wikis

See [HOWTO Contribute to Documentation](HOWTO-contribute-to-documentation)
