Hellen-125-Honda-K.md, before:

# Hellen 125 Honda K-Series

## Designed for 2002 RSX wiring

[💲Gets yours at the rusEFI Store💲](https://www.shop.rusefi.com/shop/p/honda-k-2002-pinout)

[Pinout](https://rusefi.com/docs/pinouts/hellen/hellen-honda-k/)

[Snapshot Bundle](https://rusefi.com/build_server/rusefi_bundle_hellen-honda-k.zip)

[Schematics rev D](https://github.com/rusefi/rusefi_documentation/raw/master/Hardware-files/Hellen/hellen125honda-d-schematic.pdf)
[Schematics rev C](https://github.com/rusefi/rusefi_documentation/raw/master/Hardware-files/Hellen/hellen125honda-c-schematic.pdf)
[Schematics rev B](https://github.com/rusefi/rusefi_documentation/raw/master/Hardware-files/Hellen/hellen125honda-b-schematic.pdf)

[iBom rev C](https://rusefi.com/docs/ibom/hellen125honda-d-ibom.html)
[iBom rev C](https://rusefi.com/docs/ibom/hellen125honda-c-ibom.html)
[iBom rev B](https://rusefi.com/docs/ibom/hellen125honda-b-ibom.html)

For now see [Proteus Honda K 125 Adapter](https://github.com/rusefi/proteus-Honda-K-125-adapter)

[125 Pin Connector](OEM-connectors#125-pin)

[Acura TSX Engine - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acura_TSX#Engine)

![x](Hardware-files/Hellen/hellen125honda-front-rev-a.jpg)

[Issue Tracker](https://github.com/rusefi/hellen125honda-issues)

[Aux Plug parts](https://github.com/rusefi/hellen125honda-issues/issues/1)

https://github.com/rusefi/rusefi_documentation/raw/master/OEM-Docs/Honda/2003-acura-rsx-type-R.pdf

## Status

[first time turbo dyno video](https://youtu.be/y9GVBKPL5Vw)

2023-03-03 tune https://rusefi.com/online/view.php?msq=1435

https://rusefi.com/online/view.php?msq=1437

[Honda K depinning video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_kN83h54XDg)

## FAQ

Q: How do I calibrate VTS/VTEC?

A: At the moment VTS/VTEC is configured using General Purpose PWM 1. TODO https://github.com/rusefi/rusefi/issues/5999

Commit message:

As is, not compatible with 05-06 RSX wiring - jumper mod would be needed

Hellen-125-Honda-K.md, after:

# Hellen 125 Honda K-Series

## Designed for 2002-04 RSX wiring

## As is, not compatible with 05-06 RSX wiring - jumper mod would be needed

[💲Gets yours at the rusEFI Store💲](https://www.shop.rusefi.com/shop/p/honda-k-2002-pinout)

[Pinout](https://rusefi.com/docs/pinouts/hellen/hellen-honda-k/)

[Snapshot Bundle](https://rusefi.com/build_server/rusefi_bundle_hellen-honda-k.zip)

[Schematics rev D](https://github.com/rusefi/rusefi_documentation/raw/master/Hardware-files/Hellen/hellen125honda-d-schematic.pdf)
[Schematics rev C](https://github.com/rusefi/rusefi_documentation/raw/master/Hardware-files/Hellen/hellen125honda-c-schematic.pdf)
[Schematics rev B](https://github.com/rusefi/rusefi_documentation/raw/master/Hardware-files/Hellen/hellen125honda-b-schematic.pdf)

[iBom rev C](https://rusefi.com/docs/ibom/hellen125honda-d-ibom.html)
[iBom rev C](https://rusefi.com/docs/ibom/hellen125honda-c-ibom.html)
[iBom rev B](https://rusefi.com/docs/ibom/hellen125honda-b-ibom.html)

For now see [Proteus Honda K 125 Adapter](https://github.com/rusefi/proteus-Honda-K-125-adapter)

[125 Pin Connector](OEM-connectors#125-pin)

[Acura TSX Engine - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acura_TSX#Engine)

![x](Hardware-files/Hellen/hellen125honda-front-rev-a.jpg)

[Issue Tracker](https://github.com/rusefi/hellen125honda-issues)

[Aux Plug parts](https://github.com/rusefi/hellen125honda-issues/issues/1)

https://github.com/rusefi/rusefi_documentation/raw/master/OEM-Docs/Honda/2003-acura-rsx-type-R.pdf

## Status

[first time turbo dyno video](https://youtu.be/y9GVBKPL5Vw)

2023-03-03 tune https://rusefi.com/online/view.php?msq=1435

https://rusefi.com/online/view.php?msq=1437

[Honda K depinning video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_kN83h54XDg)

## FAQ

Q: How do I calibrate VTS/VTEC?

A: At the moment VTS/VTEC is configured using General Purpose PWM 1. TODO https://github.com/rusefi/rusefi/issues/5999
